have you ever tried to import a model
from blender only to have it come with
weird rotations and scale here's how you
can easily fix that issue as well as
what you should care about when
exporting your models I have a simple
shoot model here first make sure you
have applied your transforms to have the
correct rotation and scales for your
object select the object press Ctrl a
and select rotation and scale
to export the model make sure the object
is selected go into file export and
choose fbx
turn on selected objects to export only
the selected objects then click on mesh
to make sure you are supporting all the
meshes under transform select apply
transform this will fix the scaling
rotations from the models inside Unity
if your object is facing blender's front
camera you don't need to change the z4's
direction you can deselect big
animations if you have animations you
don't want to export you can leave the
other options as they are just make sure
that in Geometry you have appointment
fires turned on
you can press the plus button under
operator presets to save the settings
for later
you can click the operator presets to
reset the default values or select the
preset you just saved to load in hit the
sport xbx button to save it drop the F
backs inside your Unity project and drag
it to the scene
if you have your object being put inside
the planet like this make sure you have
the center point position set up here if
you have excited to the object's pivot
position it will try to put the pivot
position where it hits the plane as you
can see the rotational and scales are
properly set up as well as the model
thumbnails let's select local transforms
to show the local object rotation as
well
the blue arrow is unit's forward
direction that you get when you're using
transform but forward so it's important
that it's pointing to the directions
that you expect now let's export the
model that uses multiple materials and
textures
repeat the same steps and load your
export fbx presets you can save the fbx
and manually cop these textures to unit
later or if you don't know where the
textures are you can select the path
mode to copy and it will copy all the
textures into a folder with the same
name as the file
pressing this icon will instead embed
the textures inside the fbx
back into Unity you'll see that we don't
have the textures yet you can manually
copy them to the folder and have the fbx
try to Auto detect them or you can
extract the materials and manually set
the textures yourself inside materials
if you choose the embedded options
you'll need to select the model and
click unpack texture this will copy the
textures from the fbx into a folder for
you to use you might get this warning if
you have normal textures hit fix now and
it will set the image type to normal
now let's export multiple models with
the object selected click on the
transform tool and set the option to
local
this will allow you to see the object
axis by default you notice forward
direction will be blenders minus y
direction here The Shield is still
pointing forward but their spear Point
has its four Direction upwards select
both objects and Export them as usual
multiple objects will always be parented
when object facing forwards even if you
change the forward Direction in the
export settings it will only affect the
direction of the individual objects
inside and inside you have the objects
with their own local rotations
finally let's talk about characters with
amateurs and animations here I have a
model with several actions for each
animation
make sure to select both the Armature
and the mesh
you can shift click select both or right
click and select higher make sure to
select both the Armature and the mesh
make sure big animations is turned on
and disable nla strips this will make
sure that nla's are not baited into an
actual layer if you have them
on Armature make sure to disable add
Leaf bones this will add an extra bone
to healthy bone endings some
applications require this but game
engines don't need this and it will just
add up to our performance for the extra
empty gaming objects they only the farm
Bond options will remove all the bones
except for the bones that deform the
mesh you can use this to make sure
you're not exporting Bones from your
control rig but this can cause problems
if your deformed bones are based on the
non different bonds like ring 5 rigs
having done all that hit export now into
Unity you can see the model working
if you select the animation tab you'll
see all the animations were properly
exported with the fbx
and that's it I hope this helps clarify
how to correctly import blender models
into Unity
thank you for watching
until next time